README.md, before:

# Localight for iOS
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-orange)](https://opensource.org/license/mit)
![Framework](https://img.shields.io/badge/SwiftUI-orange)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platforms-iOS-orange)
![Apple](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apple-000000?style=flat&logo=apple)


**Localight** is a simple SwiftUI chatbot app for iOS 26, powered entirely by Apple’s on-device Foundation Models. Designed for demonstration purposes, Localight offers fast, private, and completely offline AI chat — no internet connection or server required.

Localight showcases how to integrate Apple's local LLM into a native iOS experience using SwiftUI and the new [Foundation Models](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundationmodels) framework.

## ✨ Features

- 🧠 **On-device LLM**: Uses Apple’s local Foundation Models for text generation.
- 🔐 **Privacy-first**: All conversations stay on your device. No data is sent to the cloud.
- ⚡ **Fast & Offline**: No internet needed. Responses are generated locally.
- 💬 **Minimalist Chat UI**: Clean SwiftUI interface for interacting with the model.
- 🗑️ **No history**: Conversation is not saved after closing the app.


⚠️ **Disclaimer**: This app is for demonstration purposes only and is not production-ready. Output generated by the local large language model may be inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading.

Commit message:

Add documentation and usage instructions
Added detailed documentation comments to ChatView, ChatViewModel, Message, and LocalightApp for improved code clarity. Updated README with a manual section explaining how to use Foundation Models, including import instructions, model availability checks, session creation, and response generation. Minor code cleanup and clarifying comments in ContentView.

README.md, after:

# Localight for iOS
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-orange)](https://opensource.org/license/mit)
![Framework](https://img.shields.io/badge/SwiftUI-orange)
![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platforms-iOS-orange)
![Apple](https://img.shields.io/badge/Apple-000000?style=flat&logo=apple)

**Localight** is a simple SwiftUI chatbot app for iOS 26, powered entirely by Apple’s on-device Foundation Models. Designed for demonstration purposes, Localight offers fast, private, and completely offline AI chat — no internet connection or server required.

Localight showcases how to integrate Apple's local LLM into a native iOS experience using SwiftUI and the new [Foundation Models](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundationmodels) framework.

⚠️ **Disclaimer**: This app is for demonstration purposes only and is not production-ready. Output generated by the local large language model may be inaccurate, incomplete, or misleading.

## ✨ Features

- 🧠 **On-device LLM**: Uses Apple’s local Foundation Models for text generation.
- 🔐 **Privacy-first**: All conversations stay on your device. No data is sent to the cloud.
- ⚡ **Fast & Offline**: No internet needed. Responses are generated locally.
- 💬 **Minimalist Chat UI**: Clean SwiftUI interface for interacting with the model.
- 🗑️ **No history**: Conversation is not saved after closing the app.

## 🛠 Manual
- **Import the Library**: To work with [Foundation Models](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundationmodels), you must import the library in every file where you intend to use them. Go with:
    ```swift
    import FoundationModels
    ```

- **Check Availability**: The key object is the [SystemLanguageModel](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundationmodels/systemlanguagemodel). This can indicate whether the model is ```.available``` or ```.unavailable```. In case of unavailability, a reason is also provided.

- **Create a LanguageModelSession**: To start prompting, you need to create a [LanguageModelSession](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundationmodels/languagemodelsession). When you create a session you can provide instructions that tells the model what its role is and provides guidance on how to respond. These instructions should never be editable by the user:
    ```swift
    let session = LanguageModelSession(instructions: "You are the best friend.")
    ```

- **Generate a Response**: Finally, call the method to receive a result as a String by using: 
    ```swift
    let response = try await session.respond(to: promptAsString).content
    ```
